You can have multiple functions attached to the same hook.
It's perfectly normal for several plugins to use the same hook.
Let's look at how you would prioritize hooks open the hooks.
Example plug we created previously.
I'm going to copy and paste the WP footer hook and its function
then I'm going to change the function name.
I'm going to add underscore V2.
I'm also going to change the text and add Version 2 for formatting reasons.
I'm going to add Brake Tags to both these functions
before you refresh the page.
Which text do you think will appear first.
Let's find out.
Refresh the page and you'll notice that the first version displays first and version 2 display seconds.
If I were to move the second function above the first then the text positions will switch.
I'm going to refresh the page again.
As you can see here the version to text is appearing first by default.
WordPress will run functions as first come first serve.
You can completely override this by using the third parameter which determines the priority of the function.
I'm going to switch back these functions and I will use the third parameter of the add action function.
This parameters value must be an integer which determines the priority.
The lower the number the higher their priority and vice versa.
By default all functions could be priority of 10.
I want this function to run first.
I'll set it to something like 5.
Let's refresh the page and you will now see the version to text appearing first.
Just like that you can determine the order of your functions by setting the priority.
Even if you're not repeating the same hook setting a priority can be helpful if other plugins are also
using the same hook.
If you feel that your plugin deserves to run first then you should set a priority to a low number.
Now that we understand how the priority works let's see how plugins initiate these hooks in the resource
section.
I provide a link to the function WP footer If you scroll down to the source section you'll see that
all this function does is call a function called do action.
This function will trigger all hooks related to the string past.
In this case the WP footer action hook is started.
This is how all action hooks are started.
It really is this simple.
To reiterate first all hooks need to be registered to register a hook.
You need to use the function add action the hook you want to register is defined in the first parameter.
Keep in mind that WordPress will accept in any name.
If I were to pass in foo then WordPress will perfectly accept this.
It's very important to register hooks when you plug in and theme is initiated after all hooks are registered
WordPress will run its course and when it's time to run all hooks it will use the function.
Do action followed by the name of the hook.
It would like to run WordPress uses this function throughout its core and calls multiple hooks.
This is why we never have to worry about running them to view a list of hooks.
You can find those in the resource section of this lecture.
There are two kinds of hooks which are action hooks and filter hooks.
I also provide a link to what WordPress calls the plugins API.
Here you can find a list of functions that makes hooks all possible.
Of course you're not limited to the WordPress hooks.
You can even create your own hooks.
Let's explore how that works inside the plugin file.
Create a new action hook for the WP footer and call the function J you footer.
I will define the function right afterwards.
I'm going to come on out.
All previous code.
Next create a second function called J you kill WP
this function will never run unless we call it however I want to call it with a custom hook inside the
footer function.
I'm going to call the do action function the hook I want to run will be called J U custom footer This
is a completely custom hook but I just create it.
There isn't anything else that I need to do now any plugins and things can hook into this event and
run their own functions.
I want to run my function J You killed WP to do this.
I'm going to use the function add action and for the first parameter I'm going to pass in our custom
hook called J U custom footer.
The second parameter is the J You killed WP function inside the J you kill WP function.
I'm going to echo out some text just like that.
We created a custom hook and can now run it.
Let's refresh the page and we should now see our message being output it.
Let me write down what's going on when WordPress is initialized.
It will load all the plugins at this point.
The template nor the content is loaded our hooks example plugin and we'll register its hooks eventually
WordPress will begin loading the template the template we'll call it the WP footer function as we saw
earlier the WP footer function will call the do action function which will trigger at the WP footer
event in the code we call the do action function we can then trigger our own custom event.
In this case the custom event would be J U custom footer from here.
Any functions that are registered to this event will start to run in our code.
We hook into this event and the function that will end up running is the J.
You killed WP function.
This function runs and outputs the text.
That's it.
This also works for filters.
However the function for running a filter is called apply filters.
There are a couple of other functions but we won't be going over them as they aren't used as much.
Now that you understand how the plugins API works it's time to get started with plugin development.
If you feel a little lost that's OK.
We'll be using the plugins API plenty once again despite its name the plugins API can also be used in
themes.
It's not exclusive to plugins.